Hi, I'm Dostono, welcome again in (the smartest every day) if you want to become
In the smartest area, you have to talk to experts in this area for this reason I traveled to
Germany and a man named Jörg Sparf spoke. Today we will learn about
The physics of the slingshot work, but before we do that we enjoy dropping some goals
You become smarter every day
Well today we are in a 300 year old farmhouse in a small village
Well, Jorg, what are we going to do today? - We will see (Tobias) hitting some goals
(Tobias) in fact is the holder of the current record
As the strongest manual slingshot, it gets more than 100 joules
With this slingshot we will try to kill some German beer
We've done a little tower, I hope you get a good shot
Hey man!
Yes, you did well
Hey man.
Dark red color I love it! - It's nasty, like a jumbo
It's a big hit - it's already a dark red
Wonderful man. We move the palm in the states
Your mouth, Jorg, is beautiful
Well, rubber is an interesting article.
Well, that's our chart. If we want to add power to the system
Meaning increasing the latent power in the slingshot tapes
We pull out the tapes, in its turn! But there is something
The higher the clouds, the more difficult the clouds will be
Let me show you how? If you take a look at the power scale, the more you pull the tapes
The greater the difficulty. If you draw it graphically
The latent energy on the vertical axis, the offset on the horizontal. When I pull
Because clouds are getting harder, the relationship is not linear, but a curve function.
Well, there's something else. When a launch is launched and starts to accelerate
To the outside towards the arm, we will get
Same as the previous curve indication and the characteristics of rubber material
The interesting part is that if we add the value of the remaining potential
In the rubber straps and kinetic energy in the moving conveyor Nagoya
At any given point during displacement of the lever towards the arm it will equal
Almost the energy that I added to the system in the end
The last rubber property, I did not quite understand it until I saw one of the experiments (Jorg). When pulling the slingshot bars
Back heats up, but if you let it cool
You will lose some energy. This means that the total potential energy
In the system shrink. That is, the extruder will become slower
If I stood for a while I waited for the rubber cools. Why do you think that happens?
Well, would you like to explain that, Jorg? - Yes, shot (Tupia) standard.
Made of steel, with a diameter of 20 mm. At 83 m / sec
Ie 115 Gul. - Well, get ready.
He can do it
Drag and launch directly without interruption
It uses full rubber powers without it
He loses any macroscopic potency by procrastination, which will happen otherwise
Oh hell, how thick is it?
Yup!
This is done with the missing cone, which happens when you distribute the spherical mortar on the surface of an object
Well, here I have two types of rubber bands, fasteners on the clamps on the platform, and here in the straps you will see
The tape on the left is tapered and less thick in the socket than the other on the right.
It is self-evident if Orana is shut down,
You will guess that the one on the left will expand more than one to contain less substance
To resist expansion
If we fired a shot with a tapered tape and another normal
It is assumed that on Yemen, the tape is tapered
Will be fired the fastest faster true? This is not what happens at all
This is known in the world of slingshot years ago, but no one has a clear explanation.
What I and Jorg did, we filmed the ultra-high speed shooting (you) and we fired
Two shots of different stickers, quickly filming amounted to 1000 pictures for the second. Which is on top
Is for the sprocket with the non-pointed tape.
And it is obviously less accelerated than below
My view is very simple. Each solid material has a so-called voltage curve and elongation (emotion)
The voltage is the forces affecting the unit of the cross-sectional area
(Emotion) is the percentage of elongation that is proportional when applied by forces.
It is more likely to cause an energy overload than to cause stress to the system
Well, the conclusion is that we went to two different continents, and I learned two things
I will ask you two questions. The first thing I learned, that the energy latent in the rubber bands is reserved
But it soon leaks in the form of heat
The second thing is that the slings with pointed straps are more effective or efficient
In converting the latent energy into kinetics. Well, this is extra information
In 1660 a man named Robert Hawke discovered the law of flexibility
Or the Hawk Act. There is something interesting.
Rubber in rubber bands, do not obey the law of flexibility, I will leave a link
In the details of the episode below, you can read more on this subject, but warn you some of your physics books may be wrong
In any case these are the questions that I brought you, number one
Why does rubber lose some of its (latent) energy when it cools? In other words, I can push a rubber band further away
If you pull it out and release it directly and the second thing is why the slingshot with the rubber stripes is bigger than the efficiency 95 00: 05: 58,070 -> 00: 06: 02,120 Help me know why this happens. I (Dosten), and thank you for your follow-up.
Enjoy the backstage
(Jorg) knows a lot, and I want to increase
My superficial knowledge of elasticity and rubber. But before we delve deeper into physics
Slingshot ... to set some goals. You've messed up this snapshot
With it I hit it. Blahlallah! We use less active material
Let 's go.
Go ahead
... Speaking of slingshot, I want to know ...
Not again
When I first saw you
I thought you were a little coward. I'm glad you're not
I speak only like that because
His hand hurts him and he can not hurt
So I wanted to go deeper
I'm killing myself here
In fact the tapered deviates more. But interesting in the subject, that ... goat really!
I want to know about the flexibility of.
Aah!
... (Jorg Sparp) Today we will learn about the physics of slingshot but the physics of slingshot work, but before we do so
So let's enjoy dropping some goals. You become smarter every day.
I finally completed my script
Since lightning is here.
[translated by Khalid Bakri] Translated by Khalid Bakri